# montecarloproject


Uniform Distributed Random Number Generator 

Almost all the random numbers generated by computer are pseudo random numbers, because they are generated by a formula. A good random number generator is
very important for financial simulations, such as Monte-Carlo method.
The goal of this assignment is to let you understand how computer generate random numbers and create pseudo random number generators which can generate 0-1
uniform-distributed random numbers by yourselves.
The probability density function (PDF) of 0-1 uniform distribution is
f(x) =



1 f or x ∈ [0, 1]
0 otherwise
It means each point in interval [0, 1] has the same probability to be chosen.
1. For implementation purpose, people use different algorithms to generate pseudorandom numbers. One of the most famous algorithms is called Linear Congruential Generator(LCG). This generator can yield a sequence of random numbers {Xi}. The recurrence relation of this algorithm is:
Xn+1 = (aXn + c) mod M
here a, c, M are all parameters. a is called multiplier which satisfies 0 < a < M,
c is called increment which satisfy 0 6 c < M, M is the modulus which is also
stands for the maximum range of this sequence. You can find more information
about the common parameters setting in the link above. There is another parameter X0 which is so called seed. You can generate totally different sequence by
different seeds. In the formula above mod stands for the modulus operation, for
example: 7 mod 3 = 1 due to 7 = 2 × 3 + 1.
As you can guess, this generator can generate a sequence of integers within
1
[0, M). To create a uniform distributed sequence, you only need to divide the
sequence above by M.
For example, now I have a setting: X0 = 1, and a = 1103515245, M = 2
32
, c =
12345.
X1 =(a · X0 + c) mod M = 1103527590
X2 =(a · X1 + c) mod M = 25248852323
...
Then the uniform distributed sequence will be
{
1
2
32 ,
1103527590
2
32 ,
25248852323
2
32 , · · · } ∼ {2.328 × 10−10
, 0.2569, 0.5879, · · · }
There are some variants of LCG, one of them has such recurrence relation:
Xn+1 = (Xn(Xn + 1)) mod M
The seed of this generator has to satisfy X0 mod 4 = 2.

To test the performance of your generator, one way is to use a simple MonteCarlo method to test it. Consider a square and its inscribed circle in a 2-D rectangular coordinate. The length of square and the diameter of the circle are 2, and
the center of them are both origin of this coordinate.

You can populated the points in this 2-D coordinate within this square, and count
the number of points which fall in the circle. Then dividing this number by the
number of all points will give you an estimate of ratio of area between inscribed
circle and its square . Since you have already have theoretical result of this ratio:
ratio = ∼ 0.78539816339
where r is the radius of the circle, thus the length of square is 2r. The closer your
result is to this ratio, the better your random generator performs.
